o discover that there is a living and growing physics relevant to the modern age in which we live.

CLASS IX

There will be one paper of two hours duration carrying 80 marks and Internal Assessment of practical work 
carrying 20 marks. 
Note:  Unless  otherwise  specified,  only  SI  Units  are  to  be  used  while  teaching  and  learning,  as  well  as  for 
answering questions. 

1. Measurements and Experimentation

(i)

International System of Units, the required SI units with correct symbols are given at the end of this
syllabus. Other commonly used system of units - fps and cgs.

(ii) Concept  of  least  count  of  common  instruments,  Measurements  using  common  instruments,  Vernier

callipers and micro-metre screw gauge for length, and simple pendulum for time.
Measurement of length using, Vernier callipers and micro-metre screw gauge. Decreasing least-count
leads  to  an  increase  in  accuracy;  least-count  (LC)  of  Vernier  callipers  and  screw  gauge),  zero  error
(basic  idea),  Focus  more  on  screw  gauge  with  pitch  1mm  and  least  count  0.01  mm.  Only  pictorial
numerical of Vernier callipers and screw gauge are included, simple pendulum; time period, frequency,
graph of length l versus T2 only; slope of the graph. Formula T=2.π.
numerical problems.

 [no derivation]. Only simple

gl

2. Motion in One Dimension

Scalar and vector quantities, distance, speed, velocity, acceleration; graphs of distance-time and speed-time;
equations of uniformly accelerated motion with derivations.
Examples  of  Scalar  and  vector  quantities only,  rest  and  motion in one  dimension  including  motion under
gravity;  distance  and  displacement;  speed  and  velocity;  acceleration  and  retardation;  distance-time  and
velocity-time  graphs;  information  that  can  be  derived  from  these  graphs,  [non-uniform  acceleration
excluded].
Equations to be derived graphically: v = u + at.
S = ut + ½at2; S = ½(u+v) t; v2 = u2 + 2aS.
Simple numerical problems.

ICSE Examination Year 2028 

13. Laws of Motion

(i) Contact and non-contact forces; cgs & SI units.

Examples  of  contact  forces  (frictional  force,  normal  reaction  force,  tension  force  as  applied  through
strings and non-contact forces (gravitational, electric and magnetic).  General properties of non-contact
forces. Inverse square relation, cgs and SI units of force and their relation with Gravitational units.

(ii) Newton’s First Law of Motion (qualitative discussion) introduction of the idea of inertia, mass and force.
Newton's first law; statement and qualitative discussion; definitions of inertia and force from first law,
Static and dynamic inertia, examples of inertia as illustration of first law. (Inertial mass not included).

(iii)Newton’s Second Law of Motion (including F=ma); weight and mass.

Detailed study of the second law. Linear momentum, p = mv; change in momentum   ∆p = ∆(mv) = m∆v
for mass remaining constant, rate of change of momentum;

∆ p/∆ t = m∆v /∆t = ma or

{

1

p-p
2
t

=

mu-mv
t

=

)u-v(m
t

}ma=

;   

Simple numerical problems combin